                                  0 to 1 Composition Briefer

Necessity of information:
   - Do not mix the user instruction and context with the “Additional Personal Information” in the
        response section. The instruction and context determine if more info is needed or not.
   - A user instruction may need critical info, but that info may be provided as part of “Additional
        Personal Info”, which would be used in the final response
   - Suggested info by the model does NOT automatically mean the user instruction needs more info.
        The suggested info can just be complimentary, and the instruction may be sufficient to perform
        the task

Example:



The above request without context requires the additional information (i.e. explain what software logic?)




Additional info is provided but in the model’s response section. Therefore, the instructions need more
info, but the response can be fulfilled with the additional info provided from the user’s personal
info/device.

On the other hand, the example below provides instructions plus additional context, so the necessity of
extra information is not critical.




However, pay attention to this task as it has a few assumed details that affect the first question!
Remember, additional personal information is provided from the user’s device to help provide a better
response. If the information in the response is coming from this section, do NOT penalize as
hallucination, as long as it’s correct.




Pay attention to subjects, there are some tasks with subjects that have:
    - Hyper subjective lang
    - Verbosity
    - Not following title case
    - Not following one topic
    - Using articles/prepositions, which need to be lower case

If the subject fails in any of these you need to leave the option Unselected.

Supplementary Information/Suggestions:
As long as these are related to the composition itself, on topic, and would be complimentary to the
existing info, mark them as helpful.
If it’s related to action items on the device (set reminder, call, etc.), they’re neutral. If it suggests
something that may be already provided or redundant, even if on topic, mark as neutral.
