                                 0 to 1 Composition Feedback

For those of you that haven’t done so yet, please watch the webinar session that was held for this new
workflow before doing your first attempt.

Necessity for additional information
Keep in mind that this is necessary information that would be needed in order to complete the task.
Either critical details or fact checking from web search. Make sure you carefully comprehend the
instruction and context given, (if any, e.g. previous email received), before you evaluate the first
question. In many cases, the instruction is clear and sufficient to perform the task even though, in some
scenarios, additional info would be helpful to have (but not mandatory).
Critical info is needed when the user requests something that makes it very difficult to perform the task
without that info.
For example:
     - “Thank him for reaching out and propose a new meeting time”: the AI needs personal
          information from the user in order to propose the times.
     - “Tell Ian I’ll check the price for the laptop for Rohan”: there’s no additional information needed
          here, no supplementary. Based on the context and request, it’s a very straightforward reply.

Always check the request along with any context (if given). Sometimes the request is general, such as
“Ask John to let me know his availability”, which does not require additional info from the users
themselves.

Critical Issue
Don’t mark responses as Hallucination if the information is extracted from the “Additional Personal
Information” section. Use the user input, context (if any) and Additional info before you decide.




Also, Hallucination should be failed for critical issues when fabricating specific details related to names,
places, prices, numbers, dates, facts. Information that requires personal info from the user or web
search. If the response says: “office celebration for the hard work”, this is not considered fabricated
information in the context of this task.
Only one task had a hallucinated response in the cert and this was missed by a vast majority of graders
(tip shared). Be wary of information that can be obtained from the given task info or general knowledge
(web search), and what’s very specifically made up, requires specific personal information or fact checks
to which you would not have access to (e.g. company specific process).




Centific Confidential ©
Email Subject Evaluation
We’re seeing quite a lot of combinations on the selections across the board. Excluding the first option,
which may seem confusing to some, the remaining options are quite simple and straightforward and
should not be mistaken. On the first option, remember that the ‘action noun’ should not be the first
option (Request to Meet vs Meeting Request )
Reminder: You’re selecting all the options that APPLY for the subject. Meaning, if something does not
follow the criteria, you would not select that checkbox.

The various subjects throughout the cert are comprehensible and following the expectations required.
There were a few exceptions from the cert that were missed by many:
    - Using more than one topic
    - Capitalizing conjunctions, articles, prepositions that were not first/last word
    - Not capitalizing first/last words, nouns, verbs, adverbs, adjectives
    - A bit verbose/detailed, not general subject

Instructions following, Tone, Completeness, Length
The majority of the tasks tend to follow these points, and most of you have captured these correctly. But
there are some rare cases where you need to capture potential issues. As a quick reminder:
    - The response must include the key points the user requested, be relevant to the instruction, but
        also provide it in the expected format (list, bullet points, email, etc.).
    - Remember that the output text is in Markdown so a request for bold text would be represented
        with **[text]**. A header/title is represented with # [text].
    - For Tone, make sure the content is just appropriate for the audience and context given. Most
        tasks are semi-formal, with a few more casual and formal cases.
    - For Completeness, keep in mind that the response should include the critical info/details
        required by the user. If these were missed, it’s a fail. If they were never mentioned, then they
        would not form part of the evaluation.
    - There’s no need to penalize the length when the actual instructions require a lot of content (e.g.
        the Maya’s birthday planning task).
    - If the instruction requires something simple, short, concise but the reply includes more info and
        details, you might want to downgrade it.

Helpful suggestions
The suggestions need to be helpful for the purpose of the composition. They are there to serve as
supplementary information or suggestions to the content.
    - If the suggestion provides useful ideas to supplement the information (e.g. if the plan is to meet
        up, a suggestion to propose the time would be Helpful);
    - Suggesting to the user to perform actions on the device, unrelated to the composition may not
        be considered helpful as supplementary information;
    - Not providing any suggestion when it would be useful for context (e.g. time, date, place) would
        be considered missing.
Do not assume that every suggestion is automatically Helpful. Some are just Neutral.

Overall rating
Stick to the general suggested rating by the tool. Some instructions are quite simple and require very
minimal composition input from the AI. Hence, it’s not expected they would be super creative or
insightful, but we can still mark them as Excellent.



Centific Confidential ©
