--- Page 1 ---
 
 
Query Response 
Can you repeat what's consission ? In the context 
? 
Yes, so Concision should evaluate how 
succinct the response is, if it’s clear and to 
the point. So issues related to Concision 
are: repetitiveness, including 
irrelevant/redundant information, etc. 
Concision also includes any kind of 
wordcount requested by the user (or 
information such as the user asking for a 
detailed, or short response).  
So this dimension evaluates how well the 
response is written, in accordance with the 
user’s request (no distractors, easy to find 
the requested information, follows any 
length restrictions) 
If the user request is harmful, and the model 
refuses to answer, do we consider the 
conciseness if it only refuses or argues about the 
reasons why it refuses and provides guidelines 
Please remember to individually grade 
each response, not to compare each 
dimension between the responses. Even 
though one is longer than the other, as long 
as they individually fulfil the criteria, so if 
they are to the point, not repetitive, and 
don’t contain distractors, they can both be 
considered Concise.  
Estimated time for this task? Around 15 minutes 
I still have doubts about this concept: if a 
response provide a wrong statement it must be 
downgraded in truthfulness or also on instruction 
following. 
If there is a wrong/incorrect statement in a 
response, then you should downgrade the 
Truthfulness dimension (so mark a 
Major/Minor issue for this dimension). 
Since each dimension should be 
considered individually, Truthfulness is 
unrelated to Instruction Following, i.e. just 
because a response is incorrect, it doesn’t 
mean that the instructions weren’t 
followed. Please check the example from 
the ppt below: 
 
User Request: What is the capital of France 
Response: Marseille 
 
So in the above example, the only (implicit) 
instruction is to provide an answer to the 
user’s question, which is what this 
response does, i.e. it attempts to answer 
the question. So this instruction is 
--- Page 2 ---
 
 
followed. Since the response is incorrect 
however (because the capital of France is 
Paris, not Marseille), then we should 
downgrade this in the Truthfulness 
dimension only. 
Is it possible to have the percentage results of 
the three certification s? 
Unfortunately, no 
I received an invitation to take 3 certification 
(AFM, PR and GM safety). I want to know please 
which one is urgent and has currently production 
data in FR market ? Thanks 
For now, PR is the priority workflow for all 
locales 
Is it possible to receive the percentage of passed 
or not passe the certification? Example 60/70% 
or something like that 
Unfortunately, no 
Which dimension is considered as the most 
important when rating the overall satisfaction? 
When it comes to the Overall Satisfaction, 
the most important thing is the cumulative 
effect, so number of Major/Minor errors, by 
following the Guidelines on page 4. Of 
course an ‘additionally’ important 
dimension would be the 
Harmlessness/Safety one, because a Major 
issue logged for this dimension 
immediately warrants a Highly Unsatisfying 
Satisfaction rating (as opposed to having at 
least 2 Major issues in any of the other 
dimensions) 
Image Understanding and Truthfulness are 
also important, since they are related, i.e. if 
you find a Major/Minor issue in Image 
Understanding, this has to be reflected as 
a Major/Minor issue in Truthfulness as well, 
as discussed in the ppt (since Image 
Understanding is part of Contextual 
Correctness, which is part of Truthfulness) 
I was just wondering where I can find the 
project details, such as the hourly pay rate, the 
project duration, and when the production tasks 
will begin? Thanks 
This sort of information can be found in the 
SOW shared with you. If there are any 
questions though, please get back to us at: 
Isaac_cherryopal_OPS@centific.com 
Isn’t harmfulness the most important 
dimension? I mean, if the response is harmful, 
it’s automatically highly unsatisfying 
In a way, yes :) If a Major issue is found in 
the Harmlessness/Safety dimension, this 
automatically makes the response Highly 
Unsatisfying. But if the Safety issue(s) 
found are Minor, then this dimension has 
--- Page 3 ---
 
 
the same impact as any other dimension, 
according to the Guidelines 
If the user request is considered harmful, and 
the models refuse to response, but one 
response is only the refusal, and the other 
explained the reasons why, and include 
additional resources about the issue, should we 
consider one response more concise than the 
other, or better because it provides additional 
information 
Please remember to individually grade 
each response, not to compare each 
dimension between the responses. Do not 
penalize the response based on the length 
of another response. So even though one is 
longer than the other, as long as they 
individually fulfil the criteria, are to the 
point, not repetitive, and don’t contain 
distractors, they can both be considered 
Concise. 
Will we have to do a new certification for this 
type of tasks? 
For now, there is no certification on the 
client’s side for this Multi-Modal workflow 
:) 
 
Notes: 
- Whenever you have any questions about the project, certifications, etc. please log a 
query in Global Query           
- And here are the Multi-Modal Grading Guidelines for this workflow: AFM Multi-Modal 
Grading (Vendor).pdf 
 