VCG Base Creation & Edit Model workflow info
➢ Watch the recordings provided before starting with the guides.
➢ Use the newly given guidelines as unique and specific guidelines for each of the two workflows.
Do not mix them up with previous Image evaluation or ADM guides, i.e. do not use past
workflow guides as reference points.
➢ Take your time with the evaluation; do not rush or make assumptions.

Base creation:
1. Mark an image as blurry if the entire image is blurry, and not if it’s just the background.
2. In this workflow, Text Quality is its own dimension. Do not evaluate text quality under Structural
integrity.
3. If there is text in the image that we can’t read, mark it as Low Quality (irrelevant if it was
requested or not). The option “can’t tell” is only if the text was requested by the prompt but not
present in the image.
4. For “Low poly” output style, pay attention to the details on the image. The subject has to show
clear signs of polygons (mostly triangular but also quadrilateral) in order to match the style.
5. Photorealism output style means the image should look as if it was captured by a real camera.
6. Page 102 says Egyptian style but the image examples are Persian paintings. Page 103 says Benin
Bronze but the pictures are also Persian painting. We have made the client aware of this.
7. Apparent ethnicity and gender will not be evaluated when there is a single person in the image.
8. For apparent ethnicity and gender, if there is even one person (in a group) whose face we cannot
see, we should select “can’t determine” for both options. Meaning, if the image has 5 people
and we see two are male, two females, but we can’t see the fifth one, it’s “can’t determine”.
9. You can click on all images and click the + to expand. Use this to analyze the images carefully,
specifically for Structural Integrity issues. Pay particular attention to humans and animals in the
images; face features, eyes (gaze), fingers, limb proportions and numbers. Clear face distortions
are Severe issues. Be detailed and apply proper criteria. Most obvious issues would not be
“minor”.
10. Pay attention on Alignment that all elements are properly covered and not partially or missing
(e.g. “in a gym” verify that setting does look like a gym).
Edit model:
1. Text quality *is* part of Structural Integrity. A spelling mistake can be Noticeable for single word
images. Small artifacts in letters (e.g. ‘joy’ from the task) would be considered minor as long as
the overall integrity is good and text is understandable/clear.
2. On page 37, there is a small piece of text missing. It should read “…reflecting in the output.”

(continued ↓)

Centific Confiential ©

3. On page 64, there is also some part of the text missing. It sould read “…thus not a total failure”.

4. Some elements related to Visual Quality may also affect Structural integrity (dimension overlap).
Implausible scene and spatial layout (pg. 81).
5. Page 103 and 105 have the same content, client is aware. Page 105 shold list the 4 options that
you can choose from when an image is Fair or Poor (e.g. image is blurry, different output style,
etc.)
6. Page 121 is talking about comments not Usability. The client has been made aware. Page 122 is
the content related to Usability.
7. Click on the images and expand them for evaluation. Analyze them carefully, especially Structural
Integrity, Unedited portions and Character consistency.
8. Pay particular attention to humans and animals in the images; face features, eyes (gaze), fingers,
limb proportions and numbers. Clear face distortions are Severe issues. Be detailed and apply
proper criteria. Most obvious issues would not be “minor”.
9. Evaluate each image individually per dimension. First evaluate Left, then Right. Avoid combining
the evaluations.
10. Pay attention to action required (change, remove, add, etc.) in the prompt as well as all elements
required. This will affect the Instructions and Alignment dimensions.

Ignore the rating suggestions provided for the following example:
“a girl and a boy sitting on a life ring” OR “two kids in life jackets”

Minor issues and Highly aligned are wrong ratings. Alignment should be downgraded and SI should be
upgraded to a higher penalty.

Centific Confiential ©

