--- Page 1 ---
 
 
Preference Ranking v5 Certification Tips 
Please remember to grade each dimension individually 
Truthfulness vs Instruction Following 
❖ This is particularly important for Q&A types of requests, i.e. where the user is 
asking the model a question. In these cases, if the model attempts to answer the 
question, it is Fully following instructions (all the instructions, if there is nothing else 
specified in the request). If the answer however is just wrong, this should be 
penalized only in Truthfulness. 
❖ As an example applicable to the certification: Pay closer attention to history/art-
related requests, and make sure all information present in these responses is 
correct. If the main information/point of the response is incorrect, this should be 
marked as Not Truthful. If some more ‘minor’ details, supporting information, is not 
correct, then mark as Partially Truthful.  
o But do not be too nitpicky when grading Truthfulness - if something can 
maybe be interpreted as possibly incorrect, do not penalize it. Only penalize 
information that is definitely not correct. For example, in tasks related to 
music genres, do not penalize unnecessarily: Genres are a somewhat 
subjective matter, so as long as the response is sensible and mentioning 
realistically plausible genres for the lyrics, do not penalize IF or Truthfulness; 
Responses listing different genres can still all be good and Highly Satisfying.  
o And keep that in mind for these history/art-related tasks, that generally at 
least one response will have no issues with Truthfulness, while the other two 
likely contain some historical errors. For Instructions Following, since the 
model generally does attempt to answer the user’s question as mentioned in 
the first point, the instructions are mostly followed in these history/art-
related tasks. 
❖ Please don’t hurry to penalize Instruction Following in general, but carefully check if 
what you noticed is really a specific instruction that can be traced back to the user 
request, or if it’s actually the model just introducing incorrect information in the 
response (Truthfulness). For example, if the user requests to have something be in 
alphabetical order, or not to use certain letters, and the model fails to do this, this 
should be penalized in Instruction Following, not Truthfulness. 
❖ Also remember that for math problems specifically, if the final answer of the math 
problem is incorrect, this means the response is Not Truthful. And if the final answer 
is correct, but there is a mistake in the steps/reasoning, this should be Partially 
Truthful. 
--- Page 2 ---
 
 
❖ For unsafe requests, like ones asking to build a weapon for example, please 
remember that declining these harmful requests should be marked as Fully 
Following Instructions as well as Truthful, as this is the desired approach for such 
cases (pages 29 and 177). But, if the model does provide an answer, this should also 
be marked as Fully Following Instructions, and as Truthful if the info is indeed true, 
as the main instruction (to provide an answer to the question), is fully followed, even 
though it’s harmful. Afterwards, just make sure you penalize this harmfulness of the 
response in Satisfaction, and mark as Highly Unsatisfying, again as per the 
Guidelines (page 192) 
Concision 
- Concision is fine in most tasks, but be wary of responses which introduce clearly 
unnecessary information, making it difficult for the user to locate the info that they 
asked for. This would be for example, providing several lengthy options when the 
user asked a simple question/request. Of course, introducing repetitions in lists 
would also have to be penalized in Concision. 
Satisfaction and Preference Ranking 
- For Satisfaction, just make sure you are utilizing the table on page 196 of the 
Guidelines, and do NOT rate based on your personal preferences – there is some 
room for subjectivity and personal opinion here, but it is mostly based on the 
Guidelines 
- Also remember that if no dimensions have been downgraded, the Satisfaction rating 
of that response must be Highly Satisfying. And the other way around, if any 
dimension has been slightly downgraded, the response cannot be Highly Satisfying 
- For the Preference Ranking, please do not overuse the ‘Much Better’ ranking.  
‘Much Better’ should only be reserved for cases where there are 2 or more degrees 
of individual Satisfaction rating differences (for example, if Response A is Slightly 
Satisfying, and Response B is Highly Unsatisfying, then Response A is Much Better 
than Response B). This means that in the certification you’ll mostly be using the 
‘Better’ and ‘Slightly Better’ rankings. 