--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Disclaimer for all Participants 
 
Zero Tolerance for Breaches. As part of Centific, you are trusted with sensitive customer 
information. Any violation of confidentiality will result in severe consequences, including 
legal action. 
 
ABSOLUTE DON’TS (STRICTLY PROHIBITED) 
NO Screen Recording or Screenshots – Capturing training 
material in any form is forbidden 
 
NO Sharing on Public Platforms or Social 
NO Discussing Confidential Information with Anyone 
NO Modifying or Reproducing Training Content 
 
Centific InfoSec Internal 
DO’S 
Understand & Follow NDA Instructions – You are 
legally bound by the NDA; ensure full compliance at 
all times 
Follow Centific’s Security Policies 
Access Training Only on Secure Networks 
Use Only Approved & Secure Devices
--- Page 2 ---
 
2 
 
 
General:    
 Always remember that each dimension is evaluated individually. Do not let your judgment be influenced by the rating from 
another dimension    
 Focus on each answer individually in order to rate the based on the dimension requirements. If they meet the requi rements 
do not downgrade one answer just because you prefer how the other one looks. Focus on the key points and the user 
prompt (what is the main ask, are there any specific instructions such as length, list, etc.).    
 Do not rush the cert, particularly the tasks that require more reading, fact -checking.    
 Do not be subjective or strict in your evaluations for the dimensions. Use the guideline descriptions and examples as 
reference points during your evaluation.    
    
Instruction following:    
 Look for the specific requirements like length (word count, no. of sentence of paragraphs, list or bullet points, bold or 
highlights, etc.). Verify if the answers adhere to these explicit instructions. 200 words requested but 500 provided is not 
following. One sentence request but multiple sentences provided would be partially following. Refer to the examples in the 
guides.    
 Most instructions are explicit but keep on the lookout for potential implicit instructions (eg. “provide details”, “how to make XY 
dish” – likely looking for ingredients and steps).    
 For math, pay attention to everything being asked and the format in which it should be presented.    
    
 
 
--- Page 3 ---
 
3 
 
 
Truthfulness:    
 When evaluating something based on the input text provided (like a summary or extraction request), check the 
groundedness of the response against the input text. eg. if the article says orcas live 10 years but the response lists that they 
live 15-20 years, this is not grounded and therefore not accurate information.    
 When evaluating open questions and answers (eg. history of police report, mandarin lang), make sure to fact -check the 
key/important pieces of information to make sure they ’re truthful.    
 When the primary information of the ask is wrong, fail the dimension. When the primary info is correct, but the secondary info 
is wrong, mark it as partially. Eg. Who won the world cup 2022?    
 Resp A: The 2022 world cup was won by Argentina. The final match was played on December 08, 2022. (primary ask “who 
won” is correct; secondary info, not asked, is wrong).    
 For prompts that don’t have fact checking or groundedness from the input text, you evaluate it based on the details given by 
the prompt (eg. creative writing or non-fiction content, like coming up with slogans for something).    
    
Concision:    
 It can be related to instruction following in the sense that explicit length instructions might be provided in the prompt (eg . 
number of words, sentences, p aragraphs, etc.). Based on these instructions you have to evaluate if it ’s concise or not. 
Excessively longer/shorter responses than requested would be bad. Slightly longer/shorter, would be acceptable.    
 Make sure there are no distractions in the text. B ut note that these are in reference to unrelated content to the main topic OR 
excessive information that does not directly address the user query.    
 
 
    
--- Page 4 ---
 
4 
 
Satisfaction:    
 When evaluating satisfaction follow this table (below) from the guidelines as a bas is for your evaluation.    
 Any time an individual response is downgraded, even if partially, it cannot be considered highly satisfying.    
 For side-by-side satisfaction, a 1-level satisfaction difference between the individual responses cannot lead to a 3 -level gap 
in the side-by-side evaluation. If respA is highly satisfying and respB is slightly satisfying, A cannot be much better than B.    
 If both responses are highly unsatisfying, they would rank “same” side-by-side. But if they’re both slightly 
unsatisfying/satisfying or highly satisfying, you can evaluate them as either “same” or upgrade by one level the one that you 
feel might be better overall (i.e. rate is as slightly better than the other).     
 The responses cannot be multiple levels apart if they have the same individual satisfaction rating (eg. both response are 
slightly satisfying but you marked A and better/much better than B).    
 
  