Proofreading V2 feedback – Feb 19 [updated]
Q1 – How you answer this question will gravely impact the remainder of the evaluation and your overall
score in the cert.
i)
Yes, the text is grammatically correct and free of punctuation ambiguity.
As most of the tasks in the cert are quite short phrases or sentences, this should be an easy to determine
option. Do not get confused by short phrases just because they lack a period at the end.
Remember: check if the sentence is comprehensible and verify the approach of neutral/informal/formal
texts. Refer to some examples below.
ii)
No, the text contains grammatical errors or punctuation that causes ambiguity.
This is when the text has obvious grammatical, spelling errors or if an abbreviation that should be
expanded is used. The tricky part is determining the “punctuation” ambiguity. Note that this can be
determined, usually, by an obvious lack of comma where it’s clearly needed (e.g. listing of things, which
occurs in some sentences) or potentially a lack of a period/full stop between sentences.
iii)

The meaning of the text cannot be determined because the text is so poorly constructed or
lacks sufficient context.
This option will only be used if the entire input text is incomprehensible. You wont be needing this
option too much in the cert. There is task in the cert with the exact example from the GLs being used,
and yet a lot of people did not select this option. There is at least one other obvious example of a short
sentence listing multiple names ‘persona’.

Correctness
Focus point - only the edits made
-

-

Whether you think the input has issues or not, you should only check whether the assistant
made any changes.
If it has, only evaluate the actual edits and whether they have been necessary (an issue had to
be fixed) or unnecessary (the input was already good).
Question 3.1 (input has no issues, assistant made changes): check whether the actual change
affects the meaning, tone, style. Remember that not every change affects this. Removing
periods, question/exclamation marks does not affect it. Changing “can’t” to “cannot”, and other
exact matching words, does not change it. However, changing actual words, sentence structure,
fluidity and style would be affecting this question.
Question 3.2 (input has issues, assistant made changes): check which issues had to be fixed
(necessary) and which didn’t have to be fixed (unnecessary). If there is a mix, select “mixed” and
then evaluate the additional questions individually for each separate group of issues (necessary
vs unnecessary). Do not mix these up.

Completeness
Focus point - the actual errors in the input (found and fixed)
-

Do not get influenced by the edits made; focus on the actual errors present in the input and
whether they have been corrected.

Centific Confidential ©

-

-

People are getting distracted by edits being made even though they are unnecessary.
Evaluate the input and identify the actual errors in the comprehensive text and then check the
response to see if they have been identified and fixed by the assistant.
If even one error was missed by the assistant (not detected at all or wrongly corrected), it should
fail this dimension.
E.g. Input says “I need to get to the ATm to pick up some cash.”
Proofread response: “I need to get to the atm to pick up some cash.”
Actual error: “ATm”
Assistant identified error – yes
Assistant fixed it correctly – no
The correction should have been ATM (Automatic Teller Machine) given the clear context. “atm”
means ‘at the moment’ and would be wrong in lower-case.
If the assistant introduces a new error, that’s penalized under Correctness. That is, the input was
already good and the proofread made a change that created a new error.

EXAMPLES
“This is hard the who pays bit”
Many evaluated Q1 wrongly even though this is a direct example from the guides.
“Loved an image”
This task appears twice. The input does not contain any issues even if it sounds strange without context.
It’s not grammatically incorrect. However, when you change it to “loved the image”, it does change the
tone, style, register, meaning because “an image” is one of many; “the image” is a specific one.
“Didn’t bring wallet or anything”
This one confused a lot of people, understandably. The letter in the text is a lower case “L” and not an
upper case “i”, the text is comprehensible either way. The fact that the assistant removes this in the edit
does not actually change the meaning/style/tone.
“Which cars? Accord or Lawrencemouth?”
This task should not be labeled as “the meaning cannot be determined”. Remember that the entire input
needs to be incomprehensible in order to use this option.
“I think you care about the bureaucracy part. (continued)” - task
This task appears twice, so evaluate it carefully. If you made the wrong initial evaluation, you’ll get it
wrong on both tasks. A common issue people wont notice is that “listserve” should be “listserv”.
“My delivery address is xxx…soo”
This is somewhat informal text and it’s comprehensive. If in this case the assistant decides to change the
punctuation or remove one “o” to “so”, then this does not affect the meaning/tone/style.

Centific Confidential ©

And this guy on Blue actually looks like Dwayne Johnson, the wrestler.
This is a perfect example of separating Correctness eval with Completeness eval. In correctness, focus on
the actual changes the assistant made. Was it necessary to capitalize Blue here or not? In Completeness,
you focus on the actual errors and whether they were found and fixed. If you answered that “Blue” was
not a necessary change, then that mean it was not an error to begin with, and you ignore it in the
Completeness eval. However, if “on” should have been changed to “in” then that’s an error the assistant
may have missed and that affects Completeness, but not Correctness (as it hasn’t edited that part).
Russian ‘Spartacus’ volleyball club history task
This is the longest input text of all the tasks in the cert, containing a lot of mistakes. We believe that this
task was specifically introduced to test this scenario below. Pay careful attention to each sentence, and
split them between comprehensible (with or without errors and punctation ambiguity) and completely
incomprehensible. Then only evaluate the comprehensible part.

“Like I can’t even go anywhere, other than college and work to get away either (…)” - task
Just because the model made no changes/edits, it does not mean the input is perfect. This example
contained a few “like” inserted as discourse markers. The entire input is comprehensible but it has
ambiguity due to the punctuation missing, e.g. “Like, I can’t even go anywhere…” is the appropriate way.
“Dear Sam I will be visiting Isreal (…) I have booked a hotel at Batmore…I will visit Jerusalem city…and
see the the Manjor”
For those who selected “yes, the input has no issues”, please be more attentive on the tasks in general.
This specific task had very obvious issues that could have been identified even when comparing against
the proofread response.
For those of you that identified the errors, never assume that every edit is automatically necessary. Most
of you failed to identify that some edits were unnecessary. “City” in Jerusalem city did not have to be
capitalized. “Batmore” and “Manjar” may not have to be changed because we cannot verify what these
are and the corrections don’t seem to be valid either. Hence, in such cases we err on the side of keeping
the original.
“Go get it before you come??” → Go get it before you come?
Please read the guidelines and this feedback thoroughly. This scenario is clearly covered in the
guidelines. If you have selected Q1 as “yes, error free”, it makes no sense to answer Q3 as “yes, the
changes were necessary”, which is how the vast majority answered. You have selected that the input is
already good, which means any changes that occur would be unnecessary.

Centific Confidential ©

“173 S Birch Place”
There is nothing wrong with this input, it’s a common address format. If you’re not sure, a quick search
would have given you the confirmation.
“William Ramos? .)”
Majority answered this one as having issues, but the text itself does not have issues and there’s no
punctuation that causes ambiguity to it. Yes, the symbols might look odd (smiley attempt failed), but it
does not cause the text to be ambiguous or incomprehensible.
General word of advice – the third option for Q1 would not be commonly used in the cert itself. There
are a couple of examples in each cert but some are using it a lot more than it’s actually needed. If you
see what appears as a strange input, ask yourself whether adding punctuation would make the content
clearer and comprehensible.

Centific Confidential ©

