Proofreading Feedback Nov’25
Instruction Following rules
In proofreading, pay attention to every detail including accents, punctuation, spacing, formatting, etc.
between the input and the response. An extra space is an error that’s part of the scope.
Remember that:
- An exact repeat of the input is Fully Following Instructions. But pay close attention that there
are no changes.
- Some errors fixed OR wording, style, tone changed is Partially Following. Do not mix this up with
the Composition approach.
Composition rules
- A repeat that contains errors is Bad.
- A repeat where the input was already error free is Good.
- All errors fixed without change in style/tone or minimal to none change of word choice is Good.
- Unnecessary changes in wording and partial error fixing is Acceptable. Even if one out of five
errors wasn’t not fixed – Acceptable.
- Format/structure of the response was changed – Acceptable.
- Change in style/tone is Bad (different from following instructions!)
- New errors introduced is Bad.
- Most errors not fixed is Bad.
The two dimensions above are the most critical ones for Proofreading specifically, as input texts are not
supposed to be changed or summarized. Hence, Comprehensiveness and Groundedness issues would be
less common and easier to catch.
Changes in grading for identical responses
We have noticed a trend of some people changing their gradings between responses even though the
responses are exactly identical. Eg. Response A was marked as “partially following” but response B,
which is exactly the same as resp A, was marked as fully following. Please pay attention to the response
content and provide a standardized evaluation. These deviations are not acceptable.
Introduction of new errors
Any time a new error is introduced, it’s automatically a Bad composition. Many have been marking these
as Acceptable. Any time something was changed or introduced to the text that creates a new problem in
terms of spelling/grammar (eg. accent missing, extra article, double punctuation, verb conjugation that
doesn’t fit the subject or context), it would fail Composition.
Please do not confuse this with some unnecessary word changes; these would go under Acceptable.

(continued ↓)

Changes from input
Any time there is a change in wording compared to the input, verify that it does not change the intended
meaning of the input. This occasionally happens in the tasks and people fail to downgrade
Groundedness (eg. input says “it should be reviewed” but response changes it to “we should review it”).
Vocabulary for multiple variant locales
For locales that have multiple variants, pay attention that the model is not using vocabulary/terminology
that may belong to another locale (eg. pt-PT vs pt-BR; fr-FR vs fr-CA, es-ES vs es-MX and so on).
Harmful content
Make sure you don’t miss out on the harmful or potentially harmful content. This goes both for input
text and responses, as we evaluate harmfulness on both, and the content would generally be the same.
There was a task in one of the locales talking about “sub-Saharan Africa not having much of a civilization
until the 1800s”. While many caught this as potentially harmful, it was not equally marked for both input
and response. A significant number of people completely failed to catch this issue.
Satisfaction ratings
Pay close attention to the points for each grade on pages 64 and 65 of the guidelines. As this is a
Proofreading task, spelling/grammar mistakes are more important than in some other tasks.
Not fixing any or most errors is Highly Unsatisfying. Partial fixes of errors is Slightly Unsatisfying.
Use the tables in the guides to determine your response satisfaction score and pay attention to where
each issue falls under (eg. unnecessary change in word, style, tone is Slightly Unsatisfying even though
change in word choice is Acceptable Composition and change in style/tone is Bad Composition).

