Proofreading V2.0 Cert Feedback – Dec.18
RECAP:
Minimal edit principle
It means preserving the original text as much as possible, but obvious errors that do not fall under the
exceptions should still be fixed.
Remember the principles for handling formal/informal texts as well. If the text is formal, corrections are
expected. Neutral or when formality is unclear/ambiguous, side with the corrections being made. Only
for informal texts, these are not necessary
Correctness
Evaluates whether the changes that have been made altered the meaning (3.1) or were they necessary
and correct (3.2).
Keep in mind for Q3.1, using synonyms, similar words is NOT automatically an altered meaning, tone,
style. The change would have to comprise of an actual change in tone, style, register, etc. (e.g. “hey
Mark” was changed to “Dear Mark”; but “hey” vs “hi” is not a change that affects the requisites)
Completeness
Evaluates whether all the actual errors (for the scope of this task) were found and corrected properly. Do
not confuse with the Correctness dimension, which only focuses on the actual edits made. In this
dimension your focus points are just the actual errors and how they were fixed. Therefore, if the model
missed an error from the input, it would affect this dimension.
TASK:
When answering the first question remember:
- the minimal edit principles
- the definition or expectation for what constitutes errors (pg.24)
This will help you determine whether Q1 should be a ‘Yes’ or a ‘No’.
Question 2 is quite straightforward and simple. Has the model made any corrections? You can compare
the input with the response (proofread copy) and see if any changes have been made. The smallest
change would qualify as a ‘Yes’. However, you must verify that the changes have been applied.
Do NOT assume based on the coloring or proposed edits text box! Sometimes the proposed edit box
might show changes done but when you compare the input with the response, you might see that
they’re identical.
IMPORTANT:
If part of the text from the input is missing in the response (see example below), do not assume that this
is a change from the model. Consider that the model has reviewed this content and thinks it is correct
(no changes needed). This has been called out in the GLs as well.

Centific Confidential ©

Correctness:
- IMPORTANT: you’re focusing primarily on the edits that have been made by the model;
irrelevant if they’re needed or not.
- IMPORTANT 2: you must clearly distinguish what was the necessary edit and what was the
unnecessary one. These two will help you to answer Q3.2 and the follow-up options. Again, do
not assume that every change the model has made was necessary.
- Keep in mind the task is en-US, pay attention to British spelling.
- Look out for spacing fixes between words, before or after punctuation.
- Pay attention to punctuations, especially when determining if the input is formal vs informal.
- Omitting a word can be acceptable if the word itself is incorrect in the sentence structure.
- Any changes that were unnecessary will be penalized under this dimension only!
- If any portion of the text is missing from the response, assume that the model thinks the missing
section contains no errors. Concentrate your review on the text that is present in the response.
Completeness:
- IMPORTANT: errors may exist outside of what the model has found. Do not assume the proposed
edits are everything there is to fix.
- Your focus here is NOT the unnecessary changes the model made but only the actual errors. Do
not let yourself get confused with the first dimension. If the text is formal and the first word was
not capitalized in the sentence, that should be the error you focus on here, even if the model
changed 2-3 other things (that were not necessary).
- If even one obvious error was not detected or correctly fixed by the model (in the response), you
should answer the question with ‘No’.
- If the model fixes an error while introducing another change you should only focus that it found
and fixed the actual error, and the extra change of tone/style would be affecting Correctness
instead. E.g. <btw> was changed to <By the way, >); the comma was added as a necessary fix
(error found and correctly fixed) but the model expanded btw to “by the way”, which was not
necessary and this would be penalized in Correctness, NOT Completeness.

EXAMPLES
1.

Centific Confidential ©

•
•
•
•

Travelling is British spelling, not en-US.
Note how some changes in spacing or punctuation highlight the actual words around it. This
does not mean the word was changed, pay attention to the details in the changes.
Notice the “pollution,people” section is missing a space and the model never noticed this
(Completeness, answer is ‘No’). Many selected ‘yes’ on Q4.
Also pay attention to the second sentence in the input with “although” and “however”. These
are two words that signal contrast and don’t make grammatical sense in the same sentence.
-------------------2.

In the above example, a substantial portion of the text is missing from the response. According to the
guidelines callout, when this occurs, assume the model thinks the omitted content is correct and
contains no errors. The model only identified two errors and so only those two sentences were provided.
•
•
•
•
•

A third of the people looked at the above input text and still answered “yes, the input is correct”,
with an obvious lower-case ‘yes’ issue at the start of the sentence. The input is somewhat
formal/neutral, therefore corrections are expected.
The model correctly identifies and fixes the Yes capitalization issue.
However, it unnecessarily edits the “Call/page” part. Not only that, but it also introduced a new
error (or fixes it incorrectly) by not adding a space between “or” and “page”. We choose “mixed,
only some edits are necessary”.
Therefore, the necessary edits (<yes.>) would be “yes, all necessary edits are correct”. However,
a third of people still answered this wrong.
In Completeness, 2/3 of people failed to choose the correct option, which was “Yes, all errors
were found and properly corrected”, since the only real error was the lower-case ‘yes’.
Remember, we only care about the actual errors and their correction. If unnecessary changes
were done (whether correct or not), they would affect Correctness.
--------------------

3.

Centific Confidential ©

Similar to the previous example, straight off-the-bat we can see the input has errors, but some graders
still marked the input as perfect. And while changes are also obvious, some graders still selected the
response is identical to the input.
Please note, “at glancing at” does not sound grammatically correct and the proposed correction in the
above case is not exactly correct either. The ‘comma’ after schedule is fine.

Centific Confidential ©

