TA PROOFREAD RCA: pt_BR
April 7th, 2025
QUESTION 1: From the task, one input text contains « E como eu falei, eu te
Rachel por todas as coisas extras. » This sentence is incomplete as a word is
missing for context. Both responses add a word to make it have some sense. This
affects groundedness, however, it’s unclear what the expectation from the model
in Proofreading is when there’s a missing word like this? Repeating the sentence
would still leave it incomplete and it’s unclear how following instructions would be
graded and how composition is affected, because a word is missing and not
adding anything would render it bad. However, adding a word could be considered
as something that affects following instructions.
o

ANSWER: For the scope of this task, if a response adds a word so
the sentence can make more sense, the response should be
downgraded in Instruction Following (for unnecessary word
change—unless we agree this is necessary word change. See the
guidelines regarding unnecessary changes we have provided for
ja_JP and zh_CN ) and Groundedness.
If the response repeats the Input Text, this case would be rated as
Fully Following and gets downgraded in Composition (maybe also
Satisfaction?).

QUESTION 2: Interpretation of certain texts in pt-BR will vary between people.
Example, “Tô viciado também no álbum novo daquele Anthony Chavez” is
considered grammatically correct but a response changes the order to “no novo
álbum”, which is also correct and slightly more common. Some people consider
this a valid correction while others feel the original was already good and therefore
the unnecessary change would be penalized.
Are words like elegantérrimo and rapidão, which are commonly used by Brazilians
every day, but not necessarily the official declension, acceptable? Or would they
need to be corrected as part of proofreading?
Similarly, sometimes the difference between input and response can be the word
pra to para. The former is informal, the latter more formal. Is this sufficient to fail
the composition (as a change of tone), while only partially failing instructions?
o

ANSWER: Based on the specialized guidelines we released for ja_JP
and zh_CN, which also apply to other locales, these word changes
(awkward, formal >> common, informal usage; or the other way
around) would be considered as unnecessary modifications, so
Partially Following.

