Dear Lighthouse Annotators,
Before taking the TA Proofreading certification, please carefully review the following
feedback and key clarifications. These points highlight common issues observed in
previous attempts and must be taken into account before taking the certification.
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

There still seems to be a small group of people who don’t understand the scope of
the proofreading task and are marking complete repeats of the input text as not
following or partially following.
When the input text has some errors, a full repeat in the response is fully following
but BAD composition, and there would be localization issues to report as well.
Partially fixed content should be labelled as Partially Following and not Fully
following. This means the composition would also be acceptable at most. And so,
if a punctuation or capitalization was not fixed, then there would be localization
issues as well.
Pay attention to purposely introduced errors — many are quite obvious like
double-spaces added and articles missing. A response that fixes some, but not
other issues cannot be considered fully following. Also, sometimes a bit of
research might be necessary in case you don’t know if Grappel or Grapple is
correct.
On the same example, many of you have missed the word reordering and
change of meaning in the 2nd sentence. And some who noticed it, penalized it
too harshly.
Remember that unnecessary changes to the input are downgraded. If the input
is already correct in grammar, wording, etc. a change in the response would not
be considered an improvement but instead it would be penalized.
Remember, a change in style/tone would be failed in Composition as well.
There was at least one obvious response changing most of the style/tone of the
input text, and while most of you marked this in following instructions, you failed
to mark it in Composition.
For input texts where ``` appears at the start or end of the text, please ignore
these symbols and the change of the font color and font style. Focus only on
the text itself and whether the errors are fixed or not.
Use the satisfaction scale on pg. 64-65 in the guides to determine a response’s
satisfaction grading.
Please make sure you fully understand the scope. One of the responses for the
example below gives a clear indication that half of you still fail to understand

how to evaluate the dimensions. Downgrading a full repeat of the input in both
following instructions and even groundedness is not correct.

-

-

Example: “Speriamo che troviamo un vestito per questa ragazza” – the two
responses for this task seem identical at first glance, but there is a tiny issue
purposely left in one that quite a few missed.
Remember, Groundedness is about staying true to the input text, even if
Shawn Mendes did sing Señorita.

Please ensure you review these points carefully before attempting the
certification.

