TC Proofread Feedback Nov.19
Instruction Following
Common mistakes:
• Failing to penalize unnecessary changes (extra words, wording changes, stylistic edits, tone
shifts) even though guidelines require a downgrade.
• Incorrectly penalizing outputs that simply repeat the input, despite the guidelines clearly
stating that these should be Fully Following Instructions.
Note: Only an exact repeat is fully following. If even a comma was changed or extra space
removed, that’s not an exact repeat and therefore cannot be Fully Following UNLESS that was
the only issue with the input. In which case it’s considered that the model reviewed the input
and fixed all errors.
• Overlooking cases where only some errors were fixed, which should result in Partially Following
Instructions.
• Missing small uncorrected details (spacing, punctuation, minor grammar) that should trigger a
downgrade.
Impact
As instruction following is closely related to Composition, the issues missed in this dimension will
sometimes cascade into Composition and eventually Satisfaction, creating a large gap between the
expected and provided grading.

Composition
Common mistakes:
1. Failing to capture when a new error has been introduced, which would fail the dimension OR
2. Accepting responses with uncorrected or newly introduced errors as “Acceptable” or “Good”.
3. Not recognizing that minor residual mistakes still lower the composition score to “Acceptable”.
4. Penalizing responses when no errors exist. An input text that is good does not require changes,
and a repeat would therefore be Good.
5. Under-penalizing or not penalizing grammar, punctuation, spacing, and formatting errors.
Reminder:
o An exact repeat that contains errors is Bad.
o A exact repeat where the input was already error free is Good.
o All errors fixed without change in style/tone or minimal to none change of word
choice is Good.
o Unnecessary changes in wording and partial error fixing is Acceptable. Even if one
out of five errors was not fixed – Acceptable.
o Format/structure of the response was changed – Acceptable.
o Change in style/tone is Bad (different from following instructions!)
o New errors introduced is Bad.
o Most errors not fixed is Bad.
Impact
As the task scope is to Proofread content, Composition is one of the most critical dimensions.
Overlooking errors or penalizing answers that don’t contain issues will gravely affect the Satisfaction
evaluation.

Centific Confidential ©

Groundedness
Common mistakes:
• Missing subtle semantic changes introduced by the model (word choice changes that actually
altering the meaning compared to the input).
• Incorrectly marking partially grounded responses as fully grounded.
• Occasional incorrect flagging of groundedness issues where none exist.
Remember: Proofreading generally does not require wording changes compared to the input. In terms of
Groundedness, you should be just matching the input to the output. The moment you see a change in
wording, it should be a signal for you to verify whether it affects this dimension, i.e. does it change the
intended meaning from the input? Does it change the tense or the grammatical gender or number?
Otherwise, it should be a relatively easy check if no changes to the wording have been made.

Comprehensiveness
Common mistake:
• Incorrect penalization even when all essential information was present.
Remember: As the expectation is to maintain the original input pretty much the same, there should be
no content removed from the input, unless the removal is necessary as a correction (eg. “the” was used
twice in sequence). A simple comparison between input and response will tell you if any important
content was removed, be it a sentence or keywords, which in turn would affect Comprehensiveness.

Satisfaction Issues
Common mistakes:
• Overrating or underrating satisfaction: this occurs as a result of misjudging the primarily the
dimensions of IF and Composition.
• Inconsistent application of satisfaction rules across the board. Use the tables for Satisfaction
criteria in the GLs. The bullet points will guide you to the correct grading but, again, evaluating
the prior dimensions like Composition and IF are critical for a better understanding of
Satisfaction grading. As the primary goal of the task is to fix minor errors while maintaining the
same wording, failure to fix any errors or introducing new errors would be Unsatisfying
responses.
• Penalizing responses when all dimensions are good. This issue occurs across various task when
graders evaluate all dimensions as good but downgrade Satisfaction to SS. You should not be
downgrading Satisfaction if you have deemed everything else to be good.

Localization
Common mistakes:
• Missing formatting and punctuation patterns characteristic of the locale (spacing,
comma/period rules, date/number formats).
• Confusing composition issues with localization issues (mis-categorizing errors).
• Over-penalizing localization where no real localization issue exists.
Remember: Proofreading does not require the model to re-structure the sentences, change the style or
tone. If this happens, pay attention that the new sentence does not sound unnatural/awkward in your
locale, in which case you might have to raise a Localization issue.

Centific Confidential ©

Harmfulness
Common mistakes:
• False positives: flagging harm where there was none, e.g. “smoke” misinterpreted.

Locale specific examples
(Note: each task was done by 3 different graders. These examples point out dimension errors where 2 or
3 graders got it wrong).

Jump to
it-IT............................................................................................................................................................ 4
da-DK ........................................................................................................................................................ 6
pt-PT ......................................................................................................................................................... 8
sv-SE ........................................................................................................................................................ 11
ja-JP ........................................................................................................................................................ 12
zh-CN ...................................................................................................................................................... 14

Centific Confidential ©

it-IT
1. Groundedness should have been penalized in response C, as it slightly changed the meaning in
input text in dropping “mi” from the original “venirmi” vs “venire” (or same meaning would have
been “venire a raccogliermi”), but not mentioning at all “mi” changed the meaning.

2. Following instructions and localization should have been penalized because one spelling mistake
has not been fixed, “annullato VS anullato” the rest has been fixed correctly.

3. Following instructions should have been penalized and marked as partially following because
some of the issues have been fixed but not all (space before”?” And extra space before
“tenuto”), for the same reason composition should have been penalized too as not all issues
have been fixed.

Centific Confidential ©

4. The response should have been penalized as Partially Following Instructions as it only fixed some
formatting issue. For the same reason Composition should have been penalized too.
Additionally, localization is also affected as the quotation marks are not correct.

5. Response should have been graded as Partially Following Instructions as it fixed “vede” into
“vedere”, it added the full stop at the end BUT did not fix the extra space before “le date”. For
the same reason composition should have been penalized too and marked as Acceptable, and
overall rated as SS.

6. Composition error incorrectly marked by graders. In general, the word used is not the correct
one for the context “quanto” vs “quando”, this should be penalized in composition.

7. Composition issue not penalized. In the last sentence of the response we are missing “li”, the
sentence without that is incomplete

Centific Confidential ©

8. Composition should be marked as Acceptable as the comma at the end has not been removed.

9.

Composition was incorrectly marked as Acceptable. There are no mistakes in the
response, it has Good Composition (Ke changed into Che and comma added after
Idem).

10. The below response should have been marked as harmful because it is vulgar. For this reason it
would have been Highly Unsatisfying too.

da-DK
1. In the example below, the majority of the graders marked Response A as Partially Following
Instructions, but since the input and the response are identical, the Instruction Following should
be set as Fully Following (despite the error not being fixed).

Centific Confidential ©

2. In the example below, all graders correctly downgraded the Composition to Acceptable, but
missed to downgrade the Instruction Following to Partially Following. There are added commas
in the response, so some errors were fixed, but the use of ‘hende’ is a remaining error in the
response.

3. For Composition, all graders missed a remaining error in the response, which is a missing comma
(gået noget tid, siden der ...), so the Composition here should have been graded as ‘Acceptable’.

4. For Localization, please remember to carefully check that the standard greeting isn’t followed by
a comma, as this is incorrect Danish grammar. This wasn’t corrected by the AI in the below
example, which then also should have affected your grading of Composition.

Centific Confidential ©

pt-PT
1. Composition issues since Response A and B introduce unnecessary rewriting, which is a
violation. Response A also changes “pesado” to “pesada”, which is wrong and an introduction of
a new error. Therefore, Resp A is Bad Composition and resp B is Acceptable.

2. Response B keeps the “tou” in the response. While natural in pt_PT, it does sound too informal
and more used orally than written. Changing it to the full form in this case would not change the
tone and the correction is warranted. Composition should be Bad as the error was not fixed.

Centific Confidential ©

3. The same error appears on all 3 responses. A new error has been introduced.
Whenever a new error appears, Composition is Bad, Following Instructions is downgraded,
Satisfaction becomes Highly Unsatisfying.

4. Response adds the word “um”. This sentence is already grammatically correct without the
article. Adding “um” is an unnecessary change in wording, which is not permitted in

Centific Confidential ©

proofreading. As per the guideline, unnecessary wording changes must be penalized in FI and
Composition.

5. The original sentence is grammatically correct and doesn’t require any correction. Therefore, a
repeat would be expected. However, both responses altered the word “webspeak” to “web
speak,” which is not a grammatical correction. Therefore, it should be graded as Partially
Following, and this would in turn affect Composition as well.

6. The added comma in “não tenho sorte no jogo, e só fumei…” is incorrect for PT because you
don’t separate coordinated clauses with a comma before e when the subject doesn’t change. It
introduces a punctuation error that wasn’t in the input text.

7. Responses B and C alter the sentence’s meaning and structure even without any grammatical
errors. For example, “Eu queria só” is rewritten as “Eu só queria,”, a style change rather than a

Centific Confidential ©

correction. Additionally, both responses introduce an unnecessary article before “dia 12,” since
dates in pt-PT are treated as adverbial time expressions, they don’t need an article (determiner).
Response B does not correct the capitalization in “Sexta”. These modifications are unnecessary,
and the guidelines mandate penalizing any change that isn’t a genuine grammatical correction,
in both IF and Composition.

sv-SE
1.

In the below example, all graders missed the errors that remained in all three responses, and so
didn’t downgrade the Composition and Instruction Following (to ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Partially
Following’). Please carefully note the remaining issues, and whenever you notice that some
errors are corrected, and some still remain, make sure you’ve penalized this in the appropriate
dimensions.
Response A: the Composition and Instruction Following issue remains with the word(s)
‘lördagkväll’, which should be connected with an ‘s’, and the punctuation is not improved at all.
Response B: It only improved the punctuation, and left the spelling issue with ‘Icakassas’. There
is also an issue with separating the word(s) ‘lördagkväll’, since ‘s’ should have been added in
between, so the response should have the same grading as above.
Response C: The same issue with ‘lördagkväll’ remains.

2.

All graders missed a Composition issue (Composition would be ‘Acceptable’). The categories
should be capitalized as per Swedish grammar rules.

Centific Confidential ©

ja-JP
1.

The Instruction Following dimension should have been downgraded. Please note that as per the
ja-JP specific section of the Guidelines (page 46), when the script is changed for no reason
(katakana in this case), this should be penalized in the Instruction Following dimension.

2.

The Instruction Following dimension in the below example should have been downgraded to
‘Partially Following Instructions’. An unnecessary change was introduced by adding the は, which
affects the tone/focus.

Centific Confidential ©

3.

In cases like the below one, where there is an error in the input text, but the response is
identical to the input, so no changes or corrections were made, you should still mark it as Fully
Following Instructions. Because there are errors remaining that weren’t fixed, this should then
be downgraded by selecting Bad Composition.

4.

The majority of graders didn’t penalize a remaining issue in the below response. While the input
text and Response A are identical, which was correctly reflected by grading it as Fully Following
Instructions, the の in マンスフィールド・ウッドハウスからノリッジへ直行南行き便 is
missing, which should be reflected by grading as Acceptable Composition.

5.

An unnecessary change was introduced in Response C, replacing 行ってた with 行ってます.
Most graders correctly downgraded Composition, but Instruction Following should have been
downgraded as well, to ‘Partially Following’. This tense change also affects the meaning, so
Groundedness should have been downgraded as well.

6.

In the below example, while everyone correctly downgraded to Partially Following Instructions
and Acceptable Composition, the response should also have been penalized in Localization,
since there is awkward and unnatural writing in おっしゃっていましたには and とat the end.

Centific Confidential ©

zh-CN
1. Following Instructions
Partially following: made
unnecessary change, deleting
“您”
Partially following: made
unnecessary change, 只程序性
to 进行程序性, 问题 to 提问
Not following, reword 描绘 to
动物园, some part misaligned
with input and missing
information, such as 问询 to
品种, and 逗号 to 顺利.
Response B: Partially following,
the extra space is not
corrected but made
unnecessary changes to put a
full stop before the emoji.
Response C: Fully following,
corrected the error without
unnecessary change.
Not following, did not correct
the improper spacing before
“无论”, and “see” was changed
to English, causing a significant
localization issue.

Centific Confidential ©

2. Composition
Response A: Bad composition,
no error correction, failed to
correct error “成为” to “得”
Response B: Good composition
Bad composition: made
unnecessary modification
question mark to full stop,
change input tone.
Acceptable composition:
corrected some but still not
smooth
Bad composition: Writing style
changed

3. Localization
Localization issue: Wrong
punctuation “。。。” should
be “……”
Localization issue: Wrong
language “Deluxe” and extra
space after exclamation mark
Localization issue: Extra space
after the emoji 🆘 and 8️⃣
symbol
4. Groundedness
Not grounded as both shift
from a self-introduction to
addressing someone else,
which has different meaning.

Centific Confidential ©

