--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Disclaimer for all Participants 
 
Zero Tolerance for Breaches. As part of Centific, you are trusted with sensitive customer 
information. Any violation of confidentiality will result in severe consequences, including 
legal action. 
 
ABSOLUTE DON’TS (STRICTLY PROHIBITED) 
NO Screen Recording or Screenshots – Capturing training 
material in any form is forbidden 
 
NO Sharing on Public Platforms or Social 
NO Discussing Confidential Information with Anyone 
NO Modifying or Reproducing Training Content 
 
Centific InfoSec Internal 
DO’S 
Understand & Follow NDA Instructions – You are 
legally bound by the NDA; ensure full compliance at 
all times 
Follow Centific’s Security Policies 
Access Training Only on Secure Networks 
Use Only Approved & Secure Devices
--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
  
Feedback 
Contents 
 
ms_MY .................................................................................................................................................................................. 3 
Other Examples..................................................................................................................................................................... 9 
 
*Hold Ctrl and click on a section name to take you directly to the section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 3 ---
 
 
ms_MY 
1. In the below example the response features Localization issues, as there is information related to another locale & the wording in the 
response lacks fluency expected of a native speaker: 
Example 1 (has Localization issues related to Unlocalized information and Awkward or unnatural wording): 
 
 
2. When it comes to Satisfaction, please keep in mind that even though both responses can have no issues found, and have the same 
individual satisfaction rating, one response can still be Slightly Better than the other . In the example below, Response B is still Slightly 
better because it is less wordy and more to the point: 

--- Page 4 ---
 
 
 
3. Please be careful with the Truthfulness and Instruction Following categories, and do not mix them up. In the example below, both 
responses fully follow the instructions, though Response A is only Partially Truthful since the marked Kdramas have incorrect names. 
…. 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
 
4. Please note the difference between the tone the user requested (friendly f.eks) and tone that is incorrect in regards to bad localization. In 
the example below, the tone used is correct linguistically, it just doesn’t fit the instruction to use a warm tone between two old friends. 
 

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
 
5. Please also keep in mind the Satisfaction preference ranking. In the example below, the requested table format is not clearly followed in 
Response B, and it missed to include information about private/public hospitals, which makes Response B ‘Better’, not just ‘Slightly 
Better’ or ‘Same’. 

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
6. Keep track of the instructions stated in the request; if the requested format is not followed, then Instructions are Partially Followed for 
the response. (Example below, the user requested bullet points, but the response features a numbered list): 
 
7. Please carefully note the below example. The request was denied and the Concision is rated as Good. There were no length restrictions 
mentioned in the request, and the decline is on topic, i.e. there are no distractions (the topic of the sad love story is noted when 
explaining it cannot be written). So these are factors taken into account in this Decline when it comes to Concision. 
 
General: 
Localization: Please carefully consider the main criteria for what makes an issue a Localizations issue, i.e. if the issue would make the user 
question if the model were designed specifically for their locale. So not all language related errors should be marked here (typos should be 
marked here only if it is a spelling that is incorrect for the locale, not a general typo that’s incorrect in any locale). 

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
Also be careful with the tone used: if the user requested a friendly tone which the response failed to use (but it still used natural sounding formal 
tone for example), then this should be marked in the Instruction Following dimension, as it’s not related to Localization, but to not following the 
instruction on which tone to use. 
Satisfaction: Please keep in mind that even though both responses can have the same Highly Satisfactory rating, one response can still be Slightly 
Better than the other; just make sure to explain your reasoning in the comment. 
Similarly, if you have two differently rated responses, where one response is noticeably better (follows instructions more fully, addresses more of 
the user’s request, etc), please select ‘Better’ instead of just ‘Slightly Better’, as we’ve noted a strong tendency to do this. 
Truthfulness and Instruction Following: Please do your best to rate these two dimensions separately, as we’ve noticed there is still a tendency to 
confuse the two. Instructions can be fully followed, like providing requested information. If the requested information is incorrect, this has no 
effect on the Instruction Following, but on Truthfulness. There were several examples where requests included instructions related to formatting 
as well (bullet points, numbered lists, etc). If this kind of secondary instruction is not followed, then the response should be marked as ‘Partially 
Following Instructions’. 
Comment: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. 
Other Examples 
1. Please always be extra careful when you come across any formatting/length restrictions in the request. As in the example below, if the 
format is not followed (three paragraphs), then the instructions should be marked as Partially Following. The same goes for Concision – 
In the example, it can only be ‘Acceptable’, as it could have been longer (because of the paragraphs, and the word limit was 150 while 
the response was around 70). 
Example 1: 
 

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
Example 2: Concision is also only ‘Acceptable’ here, since it is far too short and fails to deliver part of the main message, the strong feelings. This 
tone which lacks feeling however should not be marked in Localization, as it’s not related to language specifics – this is an instruction that was 
not followed. 
 
 
2. Please note that when the user requests the response to be in a specific dialect (in this case, in Emirati instead of the classic variant), not 
completing this should be reflected in both Instruction Following (‘Partially Following’) and Localization (‘Issues present > Yes’). 
 

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
 
3. Similarly, in the example below, the response failed to follow all instructions (the numbered points), and the Concision should be marked 
as ‘Acceptable’, since it includes some information that isn’t necessary/asked for (the ‘5% …’ part for example). 
 
 
4. In cases like below, where the request is only partially addressed, it should be marked as Partially Following Instructions, since the 
topic/point is the same, but the email itself is not completely written. And the Concision should be marked as Acceptable, since this is 
well below the requested 100 word limit. 

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
 
 
5. Please keep careful track of the Arabic variant that is request and used. In the case below, despite the locale being ar_ae, and the user 
mentioning they are indeed in the UAE (their university), the incorrect variant is used. 
Example 1: 

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
 
 

--- Page 14 ---
 
 
Example 2:  
6. Please carefully distinguish between when the instructions are Partially Followed, and Not followed. In the case below, the main point of 
the request is missed as this response is lacking all information requested by the user, except the initial beginning line. 
The Concision here is also only Acceptable, since it could have been a lot longer and included the important information requested. 

--- Page 15 ---
 
 
 
 
General: 
Concision: Please keep in mind any mentioned word limits when grading the Concision dimension. If the response is well over, or well below, the 
requested word limit, then Concision cannot be graded as ‘Good’. And please remember that Concision is not just related to keeping the 
response short: if the response is short but fails to include the main point requested, or includes trivial detail but is within the wordcount limit, it 
cannot be graded as ‘Good’ either . 
Localization and Instruction Following: As mentioned in several examples, please keep track of the requested dialect (if any). And if this is not 
followed, make sure it’s reflected in the grading for Instruction Following, and Localization. 
Instruction following: Please keep a clear distinction between the main and secondary parts of the instructions. If the main instruction is not 
followed, then it should be graded as ‘Not Following’ instructions, whereas not following more minor instructions should result in a ‘Partially 
Following’ instructions grading. 
Comment: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. 
1. Please carefully consider the Localization category. If the requested style is not related to locale specifics, but to the tone the user 
(implicitly/explicitly) requested, then this shouldn’t be counted as a Localization issue. In the below example, the response is correct in 
regards to language, but it failed to follow the instruction related to the use of a humorous tone, suitable for a younger audience. 

--- Page 16 ---
 
 
 

--- Page 17 ---
 
 
 
2. Regarding Instruction Following and Concision, please take careful note of the below example. While the Concision is very clearly Bad, 
the response also misses to follow the main points of the instructions: length, tone, repetitiveness etc, so it should be marked as ‘Not 
Following instructions’. 

--- Page 18 ---
 
 
 

--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
3. The response below addresses the user’s request, and attempts to play the role, so the instruction is Fully followed. However, the ‘facts’ 
stated are not correct. This is not related to the issue of locale/localization, but to Truthfulness, so the response should be graded as 
Partially Truthful. The Concision was also marked as Acceptable, since the reply could have been longer and more informative apart from 
listing the names. 
 
 

--- Page 20 ---
 
 
For this example please also consider the differences in Satisfaction Rating. While it is clear that Response B is preferable, Response A also 
actually addresses the request and fulfils it while remaining safe and somewhat concise. So the difference in ranking should be set as ‘Better’, 
since the ‘Much Better’ rating should be reserved for cases where one response safely addresses the user request and the other does not. 
 
Example 2: Whereas here, we have a case of Not following the instructions, since the Response has not performed in the role as requested by the 
user . 
 
 

--- Page 21 ---
 
 
Example 3: In cases where the main instruction, to take on the role and reply in the role, is followed, but the secondary instruction related to 
content isn’t quite fulfilled (local authority’s communication doesn’t seem to be fully/well applied here). 
 
 
4. A reminder to please cross check all ‘facts’ mentioned in the responses, and appropriately mark the Truthfulness category. In the 
example below, it should be marked as ‘Not truthful’, since the ‘fact’ mentioned is incorrect. 
 
 
General: 
Localization: Please carefully consider the main criteria for what makes an issue a Localizations issue, i.e. if the issue would make the user 
question if the model were designed specifically for their locale. Also be careful with the tone used: if the user requested a friendly/humorous 

--- Page 22 ---
 
 
tone which the response failed to use (but it still used natural sounding formal tone, that doesn’t sound translated, for example), then this should 
be marked in the Instruction Following dimension, as it’s not related to Localization, but to not following the instruction on what kind of tone to 
use. 
Truthfulness and Instruction Following: Please do your best to rate these two dimensions separately, as we’ve noticed there is still a tendency to 
confuse the two. Instructions can be fully followed, like providing the requested information. If the provided information is incorrect, this has no 
effect on the Instruction Following, but on Truthfulness.  
Instructions Followed: When we have a prompt asking the assistant to play a role, then this will likely be the main instruction to be considered. 
So if the response doesn’t take this into account, then instructions should be ‘Not Followed’. 
Truthfulness: A kind reminder to cross check any facts appearing in the response, as there were several examples where this wasn’t done 
appropriately. 
Satisfaction: When it comes to the Satisfaction Preference ranking, please keep in mind that the ‘Much Better’ rating should be reserved for 
cases where one response safely addresses the user request and the other does not. 
Concision: Please remember that Concision is not just related to keeping the response short: if the response is short but fails to include the main 
point requested, or includes trivial detail but is within the wordcount limit, it cannot be graded as Good. 
Comment: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. 
 
1. When assigning a Preference Satisfaction rating, please keep in mind that 
the ‘Much Better’ rating should be reserved for cases where one response safely addresses the user request and the other does not. So 
in the example below we have a case where the responses both address the request. 
 

--- Page 23 ---
 
 
 
2. In the example below, while the main instruction to extract information from the text, and stay within the word limit, is followed, the 
Response has failed to follow the instruction about formatting the text in bullet points. So here ‘Partially Following’ instructions should 
be selected. 
Please also note that missing the happy tone requested in the response does not count as a Localization issue, as it’s unrelated to the 
locale specifics, it is rather not following the instruction for tone. 
 

--- Page 24 ---
 
 
 
3. Please find below an example of when Tone is considered a Localization issue: 
The response misuses the pronouns "em" and "anh" when addressing the user and his girlfriend, which is not appropriate in the Vietnamese 
context. It should be revised to use "anh" and "em" instead, for a more natural and culturally accurate flow. 
 

--- Page 25 ---
 
 
 
 
4. A reminder on the following instruction from the Guidelines: Example: If 200 words are requested but a 500 word response is generated, 
this is "Not following" the instruction. In the response below, apart from the requested length being exceeded by a lot, as in the 
instruction above, several other important instructions are not followed: the optimistic/happy tone, the separation into 3 paragraphs, 
etc. So here the option selected should be Not Following instructions. 

--- Page 26 ---
 
 
 

--- Page 27 ---
 
 
(the poem continues for 20 more lines) 

--- Page 28 ---
 
 
5. In cases where you come across some words in a different language, please select ‘Wrong Language’ and explain in the comment what 
the issue is. (Example of the comment for the below Localization issue: The response suggests using a "cây thông nhân tạo" (artificial 
Christmas tree), which is not culturally relevant to the Vietnamese Lunar New Year. Additionally, the use of English terms like "handmade" 
and "quilling" is not appropriate for the Vietnamese context and should be translated as "thủ công" and "giấy cuộn nghệ thuật" 
respectively.) 
 
 
General: 
Satisfaction: When it comes to the Satisfaction Preference ranking, please keep in mind that the ‘Much Better’ rating should be reserved for 
cases where one response safely addresses the user request and the other does not. 
Instruction following: Please keep a clear distinction between the main and secondary parts of the instructions. Things like formatting will likely 
be secondary instructions, so missing this in the response should be graded as ‘Partially Following’. 

--- Page 29 ---
 
 
Localization: Please carefully consider the Tone and how/if it was misused: whether it was an instruction about using a friendly/formal tone, or if 
the tone is not culturally accurate for instance, in which case it would be considered a Localization issue. 
Comment: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. We have observed that some people are using LLMs for their work. 
 
1. Please keep in mind that Following Instructions and Truthfulness are two separate categories to be assessed. In the example below, the 
instruction was to explain in 2-3 sentences what the acronym means, and this instruction is fully followed, so it should be marked as 
‘Fully following’ instructions. The provided information however is incorrect, so this should be reflected in Truthfulness, by marking it as 
‘Not truthful’. 
Example 1: 
 
 
Example 2 (It's true that the response is incorrect But it does indeed follow the instructions. The user asks where should they go - the assistant 
responds and meets the instruction.): 
 

--- Page 30 ---
 
 
 
2. In the below example, note that the Instructions are only ‘Partially Followed’. This is because one minor part of the instructions isn’t 
really well executed, i.e. the required emphasis on Moses’ feelings. The response also features unnatural language as well as grammar 
issues, so this should be marked in the ‘Localization > Yes (issues present)’. (reasoning: Awkward or unnatural writing- העם שנרדם בעבודה 
קשה ,התחושה של ניצחון וגאולה מתחילה לעצור ביgrammar- אבל אז באה הרגע המרגש. ) 
Example 1: 
 
 
Example 2 (here, the instruction for the requested tone is not really followed, as this is not the best option for writing it in simple and interesting 
language that is suitable for children like the user asked, so it’s not suitable for 6th-grade students. So here the Instructions are only ‘Partially 
Followed’):  

--- Page 31 ---
 
 
 
 
3. A reminder to please be careful with spelling errors: According to the Guidelines, a typo which is a typo in any dialect/variant, should not 
be marked as a Localization issue, as this is not related to the locale or the way the text was localized, only to the language. So in this 
Localization category, we should select spelling only when we notice that the spelling of a word belongs to a locale different than the 
(user’s) requested one. The same goes for Grammar errors: A grammar error that would be an error in any locale is then not related to 
localization. Please check the example below: 

--- Page 32 ---
 
 
 
Here the Instructions are Fully followed (in four separate lists, with bullet points, to extract information from the poem). Truthfulness however 
should be marked as Partially Truthful, because the information extracted is not correct. (more detailed explanation: there are words that are not 
appear in the poem, it has a lot of mistakes and incorrect sorting of verbs tenses: 
past- כתב ,למד ,כיסה does not exist in the text. אהבת missing from list. 
present- אלך ,אגור ,יתכסה belongs to the future tense. כואב is missing. 
future- יכסה is wrong and does not appear in the poem. אלך ,אלמד ,אגור ,נתכסה ,יתכסה are missing. 

--- Page 33 ---
 
 
words that express love- אהבת is missing from list.) 
4. Regarding Concision, when you come across distractions in the text, i.e. information that is not really relevant and omitting it would have 
made the response clearer and more to the point, you should select that the ‘Response could have been made shorter’. This is because 
Concision is not just about keeping the text short, but it should include information relevant to the request. 
In the below example, the Concision is Acceptable, and the reasoning is that some dishes are confusing (e.g., “פילה בטטה ”is not clear; 
"דג'סטיבand could distract the user from the relevant information. 
 
 
General: 
Truthfulness and Instruction Following: Please do your best to rate these two dimensions separately, as we’ve noticed there is still a tendency to 
confuse the two. Instructions can be fully followed, like providing the requested information. If the requested information is incorrect, this has no 
effect on the Instruction Following, but on Truthfulness. 

--- Page 34 ---
 
 
Instruction Following: When working on a task, please always take a moment to consider all the instructions mentioned, both explicit and 
implicit. This includes a specific tone requested, or in more simple/complex language, etc. If these are missed, then ‘Partially Followed’ should be 
selected. 
Satisfaction: As illustrated in the examples, when assigning a Preference Satisfaction rating, please keep in mind that the ‘Much Better’ rating 
should be reserved for cases where one response safely addresses the user request and the other does not. So if the request is safely addressed 
in both responses, but one has clearly done this better, then please select the ‘Better’ or ‘Slightly Better’ ranking. 
Please also remember that the factors that most affect Satisfaction are Harmlessness and Truthfulness. So “Harmless” (not harmful) AND 
“Truthful” responses are more important than the other dimensions considered. 
Concision: Please remember that Concision is not just about keeping the text short, but it should also take into account the inclusion of 
information relevant to the request. If important information was omitted, then you shouldn’t select that Concision is ‘Good’. 
Comment: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. 
 
1. The response below is considered to be Fully Following the instructions given that it provides the expected summary within the word 
limitation. However, concision is considered to be Acceptable based on the length restriction given, since the response could have been 
made longer (most people got this wrong). As the other dimensions were fine, this would make the response Slightly Satisfying, and most 
of you were split on this dimension. 
--- Page 35 ---
 
 
 
 
Response B on the other hand fully satisfies the user requests and dimensions, and while most of you have given the highest grades on 
the dimensions, the vast majority of the scores on Satisfaction were ‘Slightly Satisfying’. This would have been a highly satisfying 
response. The same applies to Response C. 
 
 
2. Based on the request, Instruction Following would be marked as ‘Partially Following’ as not all instructions were followed. Additionally, 
the text contains some localization issues that most people did not catch. It uses "ourselves" in English, and phrases like "我為自己直覺
令你失望而感到抱歉", which is awkward and not idiomatic in Cantonese. 

--- Page 36 ---
 
 
 
 
3. Prompt was about Wong Kar-Kai’s classic films and filming techniques, while response A failed to follow instructions (and most evaluated 
it correctly), response B did list 5 films with some descriptions but did not really capture filming techniques and it should be Partially 
Following, while most graded it as Fully Following. It’s important to really understand what explicit/implicit requests and verify these are 
captured in the response. Similarly, part of the response B contained some inaccuracies and it’s Partially Truthful. For these type of 
responses it’s important that you spend some time researching and evaluating the facts mentioned (eg. film name, year of release 
mentioned, description details, etc.). Never make any assumptions. 
 

--- Page 37 ---
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 38 ---
 
 
 
 
 
4. All dimensions need to be evaluated individually, taking into consideration all prompt requirements, context and dimension rules. When 
you receive a response as the one below, it’s important to verify the info provided and not to evaluate on a ‘high-level’ or on 
assumptions. This is not a truthful response because the address is not correct. 
 
 
 
General: 
Satisfaction: There seems to be a tendency to lower Satisfaction rating for an individual response even when all dimensions were evaluated 
highly. You should not be doing this and this is continuously happening. 
If you evaluated a response as truthful, harmless, fully following, concise and no localization issues – the satisfaction would be Highly 
Satisfying. Satisfaction is downgraded once the dimension scores are lowered. 
Similarly, when doing SBS rankings, refer to your evaluations to determine which one is better . Responses with the same satisfaction can be 
either “Same” or “Slightly Better”. 
Following Instruction: Pay attention to both explicit and implicit instructions. Failing to follow instructions on some responses is a common 
error that causes the model to deviate a bit from the objective. People tend to miss capturing these issues. 
Localization: Pay attention to awkward writing for your locale, text that sounds unnatural and would need to be penalized. Also, pay 
attention to character use and whether it corresponds to what’s being used in HK and not Mainland. Eg: 
It should be "你哋" instead of "你地" in standard Hong Kong Cantonese, but this is not a major localization issue. 

--- Page 39 ---
 
 
"尊敬的" is not typical in Hong Kong Cantonese formal letters, as it feels like a direct translation from Mandarin or English. 
Concision: You also have to consider the distractions in the response. It’s not only about the explicit length instructions. If the request is 
specific to some details and planning, omitting those details and providing a short reply would also be considered a concision issue (i.e. it 
could have been made longer to include the important details). 
Truthfulness: Always verify or fact-check the information provided. If the primary information is not truthful, fail the dimension. If secondary 
information or additional details are wrong, it’s partially truthful. 
Comments: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project 
rules and NDA signed. We have observed that some people are using LLMs for their work. 
 
 
1. This is a chatbot type of request where the model is supposed to assume the role and “play along”. However, the model does not assume 
the role but assumes that the user is the one who is taking the role. This is not following instructions as it is the main part of the request, 
yet close to half of you graded this as Partially and even Fully Following. 
 
 
2. Make sure to always verify the information from the responses, particularly if it’s data that can be researched, fact-checked, etc. (i.e. not 
a creative story). Primary information that is wrong would deem the response Not Truthful. Secondary information or additional details 
that are wrong would be Partially Truthful. Most people failed to check the secondary information in the response below. Response B 
and C were also Partially Truthful and most have caught on this, but missed it on Response A below.  

--- Page 40 ---
 
 
 
 
3. The response below contains an obvious localization issue (聯邦準備system), yet the majority have marked this response as “No 
Localization issues”. For response B of the same task, we have a different category localization issue. “美聯儲利率決策” is used where “
美聯儲” is a mainland China term, it should be use "聯準會利率決策". This was missed by almost everyone. 
 
 
4. Explicit length requests need to be carefully checked and errors in evaluation should not be happening in such cases. Many have missed 
to downgrade Concision on the below two responses, as the responses are longer than requested. 
In other scenarios, you have to consider the implicit instruction (eg. “briefly describe” or “in detail”) and the distractions. These are 
easier to miss compared to explicit instructions but something that is carefully checked by the QAers. 

--- Page 41 ---
 
 
 
 
General: 
Following Instructions: Pay attention to both explicit and implicit instructions, most responses follow the main instructions but fail to address 
some minor aspects of the request, such as omitting small requested details, misinterpreting subtle instructions, or missing key elements. 
Truthfulness: However, some secondary information such as elaborative or contextual points contains inaccuracies or unsupported claims. 
Concision: Keep in mind that concision is not only about length expectations, but also includes distractions or too long/short responses. If the 
request is specific to some details and planning, omitting those details and providing a short reply would also be considered a concision issue (i.e. 
it could have been made longer to include the important details). 
Localization Pay attention to awkward/unnatural writings for your locale. Issues where wrong characters may have been used or the response 
was not localized enough. Some issues occasionally found include wrong language, vocabulary, awkward or unnatural writing (especially for the 
task where phrases/idioms were requested). 
Satisfaction: Remember that if you graded all dimensions as good, satisfaction can only be Highly Satisfying. The moment you downgrade a 
dimension, satisfaction goes down as well. For SBS, responses with the same satisfaction rating can be either “same” or “slightly better” . 
Determine this based on the individual dimension ratings for each, keeping in mind that Harmlessness and Truthfulness have priority. 
Comments: Please do NOT use AI/LLMs to analyze the tasks and copy/paste their comments. This is strictly forbidden based on the project rules 
and NDA signed. 
 
As always, if any questions, please don’t hesitate to reach out! 
